So which five customers made the most bookings in October 2017.
So from this challenge from the wording we know we should be joining between the Customers table and
the bookings table.
So let's do a join between these two tables.
Select select and from the Customers table selects the customers first and last name so to see first
name.
Can I see your last name.
And then from the bookings table for now I will select the ID.
So the booking ID from the bookings table and then I want to join them so when I say from bookings be
joining customers see on the two columns so we have the ID field in the Customers table I see the ID
is equal to the customer ID in the booking stable so let's run that now just to see what we get.
And you can see here we have the name the first and last name of each customer and their booking ID.
So this is each booking that the customer is made.
So you can see we have a long list of David may Teresa Davis and et cetera et cetera with all their
booking IDs.
So this doesn't really give us the number of bookings that each customer made.
So to do this we're actually going to have to count on the booking ID.
So this will count all the booking IDs and we're also going to have to group by
the customer first name and also the customer last name.
So if we run this now
you can see we have each customer and they count on their booking ID so we can see of course in customers
who don't have a first name entered into the database.
So you can see here we have Elaine Bennett one Elaine Bennett three.
Oh sorry.
Elaine Bennett made one booking and Alan Bennett made free bookings and then Andrew learned Hearst made
free bookings Annabel wings etc. etc..
So each customer should only have one row in this resultset now with the number of bookings that they
made.
So now we need to find out the five customers who made the most bookings.
So first of all I'm going to say the count booking ID as.
So do I alias for the count booking ID.
So I say as number of bookings
and then I will order this data order by number of bookings
in descending order.
So this means it's going to go from the highest number of bookings to the lowest number of bookings.
And then because we just won the top 5 customers I'm also going to limit this to five rows of data returned.
So if we run this you can see has just returned five days of data in order of number of bookings.
David may I was the customer who made the most bookings we have 16.
John Smith with 13.
And then Ray Steve and David all my 12 bookings so well don't know if you are able to get these five
rows of data returned.
If you go to a different solution then please post it in the Q&A section and I'll take a look.
But if you're able to get this then fantastic.
Let's move on to the next challenge.